Welcome back to the
computer forensics path,
Course 6, Module 2.
We're going to talk about
documenting the scene.
When we arrive on the scene,
the first thing we want to
do when we're executing
a search warrant,
is we want to,
once entry is made,
take photographs.
Once you make entry
and the scene is
secure because safety is first,
we're going to take photographs.
We're also going to
make a video and you
can use hand-drawn diagrams.
I highly recommend doing
all three of these things.
Couple of reasons.
One reason is you want to be
able to look at the scene
as you found it before
people touch things
and move them around.
The other reason is
you want to document
the condition of
even the residents
or the business as it
was when you got there.
This is to protect you
so that you can show
that there was previously
existing damage if there was.
You definitely want to do
all three of those things.
When we document evidence,
we're documenting the
condition of the evidence.
Not only if there's
any obvious damage,
but we're documenting
it as being on or off.
We're talking about electronic
evidence for the most part,
was this device on or off?
We're going to look for
destructive processes running,
and we're going to get into this
much more in upcoming modules.
Is there anything that shows that
drives are being wiped or
evidence is being destroyed?
We're also going to want to
look for signs of encryption.
We definitely want to
isolate the devices
from the network.
We want to control Internet
connectivity because we can
have devices wiped or evidence
altered over the Internet.
Changes can be made to
this evidence and we
do not want that.
That's why when
you're making entry,
one of the first things
you want to do is secure
the suspects and get everybody
away from their keyboards.
Then we want to isolate
the devices from the network to
prevent destruction of evidence.
We want to document our actions
always, always, always.
We're going to document
what we did and why we did
that so that when we're
questioned later,
we have an answer for that.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about
recognizing digital evidence.